== README

This project is about developing a new system to manage the bus schedule of a bus company.

This project uses <tt>Rails</tt>, <tt>RVM</tt>, and <tt>MySQL</tt> for the following reasons.

* Use <tt>activerecord</tt> to model the business objects and their relationship.

* To demostrate that the data can be stored in the database.

* Use <tt>RVM</tt> so that everything is in a "gemset" without interfering with the other software the individual developer might have.

=== Environment Preparation

You need create the database user required.  To do so, refer to <tt>config/grant_sql_user</tt>

Use the following commands to prepare your environment.

* <tt>bin/use_example_config_files</tt> will use the example config files to prepare your environment.

* <tt>bin/check_config_files</tt> will check if you have all the required config files.

* <tt>rvm install 2.2.1</tt> to install the ruby version using <tt>rvm</tt>.

* <tt>cd && cd -</tt> to activate the <tt>gemset</tt>.

* <tt>bundle</tt> to install the gem dependencies.

* <tt>rake db:migrate:reset</tt> creates the databases.

* <tt>rails c</tt> to start the <tt>rails</tt> console.

=== Features

The system allows adding and removing buses.

  Bus.create
  Bus.find(1).destroy

The system allows defining stops.

  Stop.create code: 'a11'
  Stop.create code: 'b22'

The system allows defining routes.

  r = Route.new(name: 'Marion Express from City', route_order: 1)
  r.route_stop_links.build stop_id: Stop.where(code: 'a11').first.id, link_order: 1
  r.route_stop_links.build stop_id: Stop.where(code: 'b22').first.id, link_order: 2
  r.save

The system allows defining lines.

  l = BusLine.new(number: 'M44X')
  l.routes << Route.where(name: 'Marion Express from City').first
  l.routes << Route.where(name: 'Marion Express to City').first
  l.save

The system allows assigning a line and a time schedule to a bus.

  b = Bus.find(2)
  b.bus_assignments.build bus_line: BusLine.where(number: 'M44X').first, depart_at: '18:30'
  b.save
  
